APM UI 9.5: Machine learning page updates (#7535)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/apm/machine-learning.md

  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Integrate with {{ml}} [observability-apm-integrate-with-machine-learning]

::::{important}
Using {{ml}} requires an [appropriate license](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions).

::::

The {{ml}} integration initiates a new job predefined to calculate anomaly scores on {{product.apm}} transaction durations. With this integration, you can quickly pinpoint anomalous transactions and identify services with active anomalies across your architecture.

{{ml}} jobs are created per environment and are based on a service’s average response time. Because jobs are created at the environment level, you can add new services to your existing environments without the need for additional {{ml}} jobs.

Results from {{ml}} jobs are shown in multiple places throughout the Applications UI:

* {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5+` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` The **Services** inventory highlights services with active anomalies so you can quickly identify problem areas.

> * {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.0-9.4` The **Services** inventory provides a quick-glance view of the general health of all of your services.

Reviewer: can we find a sentence generic enough that works for all versions? Ideally we'd avoid having version alternatives of the same content in the middle of a bullet list that also includes other things

> * {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.0-9.4` The **Services** inventory provides a quick-glance view of the general health of all of your services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The **Service inventory** provides a quick-glance view of the general health of all of your services. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5+` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Services are color coded to show services with active anomalies so you can quickly identify problem areas.
```

I think the first sentence is still true for 9.5. This might not be the best way to organize it, but I think you could do something like this or highlight the specific difference.

Reviewer: Ah I just commented the same. That said, if we could avoid the applies_to in the middle of the paragraph that would be even neater. Is the level of details added after that valuable here, or can somehow partly be integrated into the first sentence?

Author: Yep, good comment from both of you, thanks! I changed it.

* The transaction duration chart shows the expected bounds and adds an annotation when the anomaly score is 75 or above.
* Service Maps display a color-coded anomaly indicator on each service node based on the detected anomaly score.

> * {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5+` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Alert detail pages for {{product.apm}} anomaly alerts show RED metric charts and the service map, along with [a severity-colored callout](/solutions/observability/apm/service-map.md#service-maps-legend-anomaly-colors) identifying the anomaly type. For more information, refer to [View alerts](/solutions/observability/incident-management/view-alerts.md).

Author: Note for reviewers: I am aware the anchor doesn't exist (yet), I need to merge #7510 before this PR for the link to work.
